Different types of internet connections (#56)
The-Mycelium-Network/webworkbook: content/topics/types-of-connections/index.md

---
title: Types of internet connections
keywords: internet connections, types of internet connections, internet connections explained

> description: A collection of informational pieces that explains different types of internet connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: A collection of informational pieces that explain different types of internet connections.
```

menu:
  main:
    parent: topics
    name: Types of internet connections
---

# Dial-up

## What is a dial-up connection?

> A dial-up connection is established when two or more communication devices use a public switched telephone network (PSTN) to connect to an Internet service provider (ISP) at data transfer rates (DTR) of 56kbps, according to [Techopedia](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/25953/dial-up-connection)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [Techopedia](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/25953/dial-up-connection), a dial-up connection is established when two or more communication devices use a public switched telephone network (PSTN) to connect to an Internet Service Provider (ISP) at Data Transfer Rates (DTR) of 56kbps, 
```

This means your computer connects to an active phone line and dials a number in order to connect to your ISP via an analog modem.

The phone line cannot be in use during the connection and when making the connection.

!(https://www.google.com/url?sa=i&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.tech-faq.com%2Fdial-up-connection.html&psig=AOvVaw1aJbdUbuhccAm5R9-EBUw_&ust=1665823821490000&source=images&cd=vfe&ved=0CA0QjRxqFwoTCIjBpLur3_oCFQAAAAAdAAAAABAE)

> _Listen to the sound of a dial up connection_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Listen to the sound of a dial-up connection_
```

> {{< youtube id="gsNaR6FRuO0" title="Listen to the sound of a dial up connection" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< youtube id="gsNaR6FRuO0" title="Listen to the sound of a dial-up connection." >}}
```

> ### More Resources Info
> 
> [Computer Hope](https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/d/dialup.htm)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More Resources

[Computer Hope: Dial-up](https://www.computerhope.com/jargon/d/dialup.htm)
```

# Broadband

## What is broadband connection?

Broadband refers to high-speed Internet access that is always on and faster than traditional dial-up access. According to the [FCC](https://www.fcc.gov/general/types-broadband-connections), broadband internet should be capable of a minimum of 25 Mbps download and 3 Mbps upload speeds

> [Understanding Broadband Internet Speeds](https://www.lifewire.com/broadband-internet-speeds-explained-437202)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### More info

[Lifewire: Understanding Broadband Internet Speeds](https://www.lifewire.com/broadband-internet-speeds-explained-437202)
```

> 
> [Understanding Broadband Internet Speeds](https://www.lifewire.com/broadband-internet-speeds-explained-437202)
> 
> ## Broadband includes several types of high-speed internet technologies such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Broadband includes several types of high-speed internet technologies such as:
```

> # Fiber

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fiber
```

{{< youtube id="E3DEJ7odWq0" title="fiber optic cables (what you NEED to know)" >}}

According to [Enterprise Spectrum](https://enterprise.spectrum.com/support/faq/internet/how-does-fiber-internet-work.html) Fiber Internet provides Internet access using fiber-optic cable rather than traditional copper cable or satellite signals. Fiber-optic lines consist of up to hundreds of small strands of glass or plastic cables, each about 1/10th the size of a single human hair. Each strand of fiber cable transmits data using pulses of light that travel at speeds approaching the speed of light.

> _Still curious about fibre ? Read more_ [here](https://www.explainthatstuff.com/fiberoptics.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Still curious about fiber? [Read more about it here](https://www.explainthatstuff.com/fiberoptics.html)_
```

> # DSL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## DSL
```

{{< youtube id="mI6Uh6D3NvA" title="What is DSL" >}}

> DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) operates over standard copper telephone lines like dial-up service but is many times faster than dial-up. In addition, unlike dial-up, DSL does not tie up the phone line. Coexisting with telephone service in this way allows users to surf the Net and use the phone at the same time, according to [Easy Tech Junkie](https://www.easytechjunkie.com/what-is-dsl.htm)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [Easy Tech Junkie](https://www.easytechjunkie.com/what-is-dsl.htm), DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) operates over standard copper telephone lines like dial-up service but is many times faster than dial-up. In addition, unlike dial-up, DSL does not tie up the phone line. Coexisting with telephone service in this way allows users to surf the Net and use the phone at the same time.
```

!(https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/Capture-86.png)

> There are two types of DSL,namely Assymetric DSL (ADSL) and Symmetric DSL (SDSL).
> 
> _To learn more about DSL,_ [click here](https://www.lifewire.com/different-types-of-dsl-technology-817522)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of DSL, namely Asymmetric DSL (ADSL) and Symmetric DSL (SDSL). _Learn more about the [different types of DSL technology here](https://www.lifewire.com/different-types-of-dsl-technology-817522)_.
```

> # Cable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cable
```

{{< youtube id="IOZjdDHYB0g" title="How cable internet works" >}}

[Techslang](https://www.techslang.com/what-is-cable-internet-and-how-does-it-work/) explains that Cable Internet is a form of high-speed connection that uses a cable television infrastructure to provide access to end users. Therefore, the network that provides your cable TV connection is the same one that allows you to access the Internet.

!(https://www.upwardbroadband.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/How-Cable-Internet-Works.png)

> # Satellite

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Satellite
```

{{< youtube id="2cZB8E6lh8Y" title="How satellite internet works" >}}

> Unlike land-based internet services like DSL, fibre or cable which received its signal from cables either below or slightly above the ground, satellite internet is a wireless connection beamed down from satellites orbiting the earth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike land-based internet services like DSL, fiber or cable, which receive its signal from cables either below or slightly above the ground, satellite internet is a wireless connection beamed down from satellites orbiting the earth.
```

!(https://www.groundcontrol.com/en/wp-content/uploads/2021/12/How-data-moves-through-satellite-network.jpg)

> # Wireless

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Wireless
```

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hePLDVbULZc&ab_channel=BRIGHTSIDE]
{{< youtube id="hePLDVbULZc" title="How Wi-fi works" >}}

According to [Verizon](https://www.verizon.com/articles/internet-essentials/broadband-definition/),Wireless broadband (Wi-Fi) connects a home or business to the internet using radio signals instead of cables.

> _Signal boosters go into much more details regarding wifi standards,types of wifi and much more_ [here](https://www.signalboosters.com/blog/what-is-wifi-and-how-does-it-work/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Understand what WiFi is and how it really works in [this article by Signal boosters](https://www.signalboosters.com/blog/what-is-wifi-and-how-does-it-work/)_.
```

> # Cellular

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cellular
```

> ## (EDGE, 3G, H+, 4G, 5G)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### (EDGE, 3G, H+, 4G, 5G)
```
